Master of science is an academic title and is now more or less standardized in Europe. It should mainly be in the students' and future employers' interest that the education live up to what it promises - but of course this is in the schools' interest as well! As the title is viable in the rest of Europe and potentially grants a student the possibility of doctoral studies, it's most important that it holds a certain degree of quality.

The learning outcomes are guidelines as to what to expect from a student who has completed the program. My first response to these are that they are somewhat vague and that most parts could be up for discussion: where does one draw a line between basic knowledge and specialised knowledge? What is considered enough knowledge? What is demonstrated in the final project? And so on. However, I still believe that these learning outcomes do describe a knowledgeable person with a scientific mindset and that the outcomes should be compatible with any student completing a master's program. I also believe that it's reasonable that a student to a large degree demonstrates these characteristics in her or his final degree project. Thereby the final project could be used to judge whether a student fulfills the learning outcomes or not and ultimately could be used to evaluate the quality of the program, as is done by Swedish Higher Education Authority (UKA) if I have understood it correctly. I think everybody already know our program failed in the latest evaluation from last year. From what I can gather, it's the scientific mindset that is lacking in our program. Perhaps it's a lack within the master of science in engineering program (“Civilingenjorsprogrammet” in swedish), or perhaps simply that what is considered good enough in the evaluation of the final projects is currently set to low?

Personally I do feel there is a lack of scientific mindset in the engineering program as a whole, especially considering that it leads to an academic title, and I would like to see that students were introduced to this mindset early on in the education. Among the first courses I took at an academic level was argument analysis and semantics (in a sense an opposite to rhetorics which was one of the main subjects in the course DH1600 which we took during our first semester of the program). I feel that these subjects have been very useful in my later studies. Being able to analyze and criticize an argumentative text is a skill or tool that is essential in science, in a way a seed to critical thinking which is at the core of science. But also the reverse is important, being able to argue for a position in a way that is objective and relevant. One often needs to give arguments as to why an observation can be explained in a certain way, why and how it is linked to prior knowledge, why that method was essential to the validity and reliability of the results, and so on. Add to that the skill to be able to express yourself as precisely and short as possible without a loss of readability or clarity (semantics). I'm certainly biased but I do believe these are essential and useful tools for any education, but it's not enough to acquire a scientific mindset . What is also needed is a basic understanding of the fundamentals of the philosophy of science and methodology. What is knowledge? How is it acquired? Students could or should practice using these tools and mindset in the rest of the courses within the program, e.g. in evaluating the relevance and quality of sources or generally in writing papers and in projects. Indeed there is a possibility to practice this today, I do however feel there is too much tolerance of meaningless texts, students often fulfill the minimum requirement of words without much sense of quality (these types of reflective texts often being an example). With these tools and mindset, perhaps students would view similar assignments in a different way?

It sounds interesting with narrow specialisations, especially to tie them closer to the research conducted at the CSC school. It should definitely give a 'considerable degree of knowledge ". A question to keep in mind is whether it will be too narrow of a specialisation? Another question is whether the regular education provided is sufficient basis for this type of specialisation? I.e. the gap between broad knowledge and specialist knowledge may be too big, thus making it difficult to utilize or gain the specialist knowledge? It's hard for me to judge this. 

I have no immediate plans to change my study habits this year. I am in school every day and use the time for studying, also in the evenings when necessary. I try to keep ahead in all of the courses. It has worked well so far, so I will continue with it.
